# 源代码中的字面量的字符集

1. 字面量的字符集分为两类：
   - 源字符集（source-charset），.cpp等源文件中保存字面量的字符集
   - 执行字符集（execution-charset）, *.cpp/*.h源文件编译成二进制后，内存中字面量的字符集

2. visual studio的解释
    > ## Remarks  
    >
    >> You can use the /utf-8 option to specify both the source and execution character sets as encoded by using UTF-8. It's equivalent to specifying /source-charset:utf-8 /execution-charset:utf-8 on the command line. Any of these options also enables the /validate-charset option by default. For a list of supported code page identifiers and character set names, see Code Page Identifiers.
    >>
    >> By default, Visual Studio detects a byte-order mark to determine if the source file is in an encoded Unicode format, for example, UTF-16 or UTF-8. If no byte-order mark is found, it assumes the source file is encoded using the current user code page, unless you've specified a code page by using /utf-8 or the /source-charset option. Visual Studio allows you to save your C++ source code by using any of several character encodings. For information about source and execution character sets, see Character Sets in the language documentation.
    >>  
    > ## Set the option in Visual Studio or programmatically  
    >> To set this compiler option in the Visual Studio development environment
    >>> 1. Open the project Property Pages dialog box. For more information, see Set C++ compiler and build properties in Visual Studio.
    >>>
    >>> 2. Select the Configuration Properties > C/C++ > Command Line property page.
    >>>
    >>> 3. In Additional Options, add the /utf-8 option to specify your preferred encoding.
    >>>
    >>> 4. Choose OK to save your changes.

3. cmake的处理
    -   cmake在哪增加这个选项呢
        ```
        add_compile_options("$<$<C_COMPILER_ID:MSVC>:/utf-8>")
        add_compile_options("$<$<CXX_COMPILER_ID:MSVC>:/utf-8>")
        ```